## paradata - module 3

### Macro - The Bigger Picture

In making our game, we began by creating a narrative around our initial 3D model with the option to add in a separate narrative about our 
remixed model if we had time. Unfortunately, we did not have time to flesh out both storylines to our liking, so we decided to stick to 
the model that we were most familiar with and had done a better job with. Since we started with the narrative instead of the actual game 
mechanics, there were many considerations that had to be built into the game: the first was how realistic we were going to make the game 
and how we could manipulate the mechanics to work in conjunction with our narrative.

We decided to make the game instantaneous; there is no mandatory waiting period for events to happen in the game, although there were 
certain options that, when chosen, lead to ill-fated consequences such as the accidental destruction of other artefacts. This, we hoped, 
allowed for a realistic depiction of the process of archaeology, but also required us to learn how to program conditional choices in Twine 
for enhanced playability.

Unfortunately, there was very little research that could be found on the actual excavation that led to William’s discovery that we had not 
already come across in previous modules. There appeared to be some promising books to do with excavations in Egypt around the time of the 
artifact’s discovery, but they were checked out of the library and impossible to find online. This meant that most of our narrative was 
constructed on our own very limited knowledge of excavations and stereotypical Ancient Egyptian tombs - many of the game’s details are 
purely speculation on our part. Our sole source employed in the game is from the BBC "History Of The World" site, which we consulted to 
describe the scene in the tomb chapel where various other artifacts are found alongside William.

This lack of scholarly sources likely impacted the historical accuracy of the game. We made conscious decisions to account for possible 
inaccuracies in the game, the first of which was to set up the main character and narrator as unreliable. We also tried to make each 
decision the player had to make seem plausible, but due to our aforementioned lack of knowledge, we cannot verify how plausible each 
action is. We conducted several Google searches to see if there were obvious differences between Ancient Egyptian Kingdom ages in 
architecture, but considering these were very minor and did not impact the pictures that were chosen, we decided that these were not worth
sourcing.

Referring back to the article “Teaching History in an Age of Pervasive Computing: The Case for Games in the High School and Undergraduate 
Classroom”, we wanted to categorize our game in genre to have a better understanding of how we wanted our players to interact with our 
narrative (Kee, K, and S. Graham, 2014). Because of our problems determining the accuracy of our story in terms of an excavation, we felt 
that it could not be categorized as a proper “historical educational” game. We did, however, categorize it as “historical” because it 
takes place in the past, and it may still be educational in the sense that players could learn about decision processes in archaeological 
history - especially with regard to the themes of unreliable narratives and competing versions of history depending on what decisions one 
claims to have made in the past and what material evidence is available to support those claims.

The next thing we had to consider was what kind of digital narrative we had created. For this, we turned to the “Beyond the Museum” 
article and determined that a “Active multilinear nodal narrative” was the closest to our approach. This is due to the fact that our 
narrative requires the audience to make decisions that directly impact the next possible decision and possible outcomes. It is multilinear 
because each choice has the potential to lead in multiple directions, but effectively ends other options and narratives from taking place 
once an action has been chosen. It is not an “Active emergent narrative” - although it, too, is multilinear, our audience is still limited 
to choosing from the options we have provided for them. They cannot add to the overall structure of the game in any way (Copplestone, T. 
and Dunne, D. 2017).

We did consider adding a part to our game that could push it into the territory of active emergent narrative; we had considered adding 
optional links to sources that the player could then use to do their own research on William’s excavation and the other historical details 
that we may have neglected to include, but we ultimately decided against it. This was due to our lack of sources in the first place; we 
could not verify any sources that we found and did not want to mislead the audience anymore than we already had in our fabrication of the 
narrative.

### Micro - Process and Details

Being relatively new to programming languages, Twine proved challenging to work with at times. There were difficulties getting certain 
conditional choices to function properly, so Kurt frequently consulted the internet, searching the errors he encountered. Thankfully, much 
of the issues were already well-documented and were solved after some effort.

In terms of the game's aesthetics, we decided to go with a simple gradient background and typewriter-esque font. Occasionally, images were 
employed as "graphics" that would help the player to better imagine the characters' surroundings; the two instances of this depict an 
archaeological excavation underway in Egypt (albeit in a different time period than the one the story takes place in) and the inside of a 
tomb in Egypt (though it isn't the specific tomb mentioned in the story). These images were found through searching google images. One 
thing that makes the game slightly unstable in terms of its permanence is the fact that the images' presences are dependent on those 
images continuing to exist on the internet; if they were removed, they would disappear from the game as well.
